It was the largest missile ever fielded
by the US, weighing 150,000 kg including
the propellant, which is equivalent to
the weight of more than four fully
loaded semi-trailer trucks.
The Titan II was a two-stage liquid-fuel
rocket. Each stage contained its own
fuel and oxidizer tanks arranged in
tandem, with the tank walls forming the
outer skin of the missile.
The second stage carried the re-entry
vehicle equipped with a single
thermonuclear warhead, a weapon with a
yield of 9 megatons, or about 600 times
more powerful than Little Boy, the first
atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima in
1945.
Its range was an impressive 10,000 km,
able to strike its target in just 30
minutes.
Ballistic missiles [music] like the
Titan II were stored in hardened
underground silos, massive structures
built of [music] reinforced concrete and
steel to survive the shock waves of
potential nearby nuclear explosions.